Ability		Description
Adaptibility	User's STAB modifier becomes x2.
Aftermath	Deals 25% damage when KOed by a contact move.
Air Lock	Blocks the effects of weather.
Anger Point	Raises Atk to +6 if struck by a Critical Hit.
Anticipation	Alerts the Pokemon of certain dangerous moves.
Arena Trap	Prevents switching and increases encounter rate.
Bad Dreams	Deals 12.5% damage to Sleeping opponents.
Battle Armor	Prevents Critical Hits.
Blaze		Boosts power of Fire moves 50% when at 1/3 HP or less.
Chlorophyll	Speed doubles in Sun.
Clear Body	Stops the enemy from lowering this Pokemon's stats.
Cloud Nine	Blocks the effects of weather.
Color Change	Changes users type to type of last attack that hit this Pokemon.
Compoundeyes	Increases this Pokemon's Accuracy by 30% and increases the chance of finding items on wild Pokemon.
Cute Charm	Can infatuate Pokemon of opposite gender when struck. Higher chance of encountering Pokemon of the opposite gender.
Damp		Prevents the use of Selfdestruct or Explosion.
Download	User gets a stat boost depending on its opponent's stats.
Drizzle		Summons permanent Rain.
Drought		Summons permanent Sun.
Dry Skin	User absorbs Water and has a weakness to Fire. Heals in Rain and is damaged by Sun.
Early Bird	Reduces Sleep time by 50%.
Effect Spore	Induces Paralysis, Poison, or Sleep when struck.
Filter		Reduces damage from super effective hits by 1/4.
Flame Body	Enemies' contact moves have a 30% chance to Burn them. Halves the amount of steps required to hatch eggs.
Flash Fire	Grants immunity to Fire and increases Fire's power 50% when hit by a Fire move.
Flower Gift	Raises stats of this Pokemon and its partner in sun.
Forecast	Changes type according to weather.
Forewarn	Tells what move has the highest base power.
Frisk		Shows the foe's item.
Gluttony	Consumes pinch berries at 50% HP or less.
Guts		Attack is increased 50% when statused.
Heatproof	Reduces Fire damage 50%.
Honey Gather	Adds a chance of finding Honey after each in-game battle.
Huge Power	Doubles Attack stat.
Hustle		Physical moves do 50% more damage at the cost of 20% Accuracy. Increases wild encounter rate with higher level Pokemon.
Hydration	Heals status effects in rain.
Hyper Cutter	Prevents the enemy from lowering this Pokemon's Attack.
Ice Body	Heals 1/16 max HP in Hail.
Illuminate	Increases wild encounter rate (no effect in battles).
Immunity	This Pokemon cannot be Poisoned.
Inner Focus	Prevents flinching.
Insomnia	Prevents Sleep.
Intimidate	Lowers the foe's Attack 1 stage. Decreases wild encounter rate.
Iron Fist	Increases the power of punching moves.
Keen Eye	Pokemon's Accuracy cannot be lowered.
Klutz		This Pokemon both is unaffected by and will not utilize held items.
Leaf Guard	Prevents status effects in Sun.
Levitate	This Pokemon is immune to Ground moves.
Lightningrod	All Electric attacks hit this Pokemon.
Limber		Blocks Paralysis.
Liquid Ooze	Leeching moves cause the enemy to lose HP instead.
Magic Guard	Prevents indirect damage.
Magma Armor	Cannot be Frozen. Halves the amount of steps required to hatch eggs.
Magnet Pull	Prevents Steel Pokemon from switching. Increases the chance of encountering a Steel Pokemon in the wild.
Marvel Scale	Boosts Defense 50% when statused.
Minus		If allied with a Pokemon with Plus, its Special Attack increases 50%.
Mold Breaker	Abilities that hinder attacks are nullified.
Motor Drive	When hit with an Electric move, Speed is boosted 1 stage.
Multitype	Type changes depending on the held plate. Also prevents item loss.
Natural Cure	Cures status on switching out.
No Guard	All attacks used by and used on this Pokemon will never miss.
Normalize	All attacks used by this Pokemon are Normal type.
Oblivious	Grants immunity to infatuation and Captivate.
Overgrow	Raises the power of Grass moves 50% when at 1/3 HP or less.
Own Tempo	Cannot be confused.
Pickup		Adds a chance of finding an item after each in-game battle.
Plus		If allied with a Pokemon with Minus, its Special Attack increases 50%.
Poison Heal	Heals 1/8 HP per turn when Poisoned.
Poison Point	Enemies' contact moves have a 30% chance of Poisoning them.
Pressure	Enemy attacks lose 1 extra PP. Increases wild encounter rate.
Pure Power	Doubles Attack stat.
Quick Feet	Increases Speed by 50% when statused.
Rain Dish	Heals 1/16 max HP in Rain.
Reckless	Increases the power of recoil moves by 20%.
Rivalry		Move power depends on gender of the opponent.
Rock Head	Recoil moves have no recoil.
Rough Skin	Damages enemies using contact moves 12.5%.
Run Away	Increases chances of successfully escaping a random battle.
Sand Stream	Summons permanent Sandstorm. Decreases wild encounter rate when in a sandstorm.
Sand Veil	Evasion increases by 20% in a Sandstorm.
Scrappy		Can hit Ghost types with Normal and Fighting moves.
Serene Grace	This Pokemon's secondary effect chances are doubled.
Shadow Tag	Prevents switching.
Shed Skin	30% chance to heal status.
Shell Armor	Prevents Critical Hits.
Shield Dust	Secondary effects won't occur.
Simple		Doubles the effect of status boosts and drops.
Skill Link	Multi-hit move will always hit for the maximum amount.
Slow Start	Attack and Speed are halved for 5 turns.
Sniper		Critical Hits do 3x damage instead of 2x.
Snow Cloak	Evasion increases 20% in Hail.
Snow Warning	Summons permanent Hail.
Solar Power	Loses HP in Sun. Special Attack increases 50%.
Solid Rock	Reduces damage from super effective hits by 1/4.
Soundproof	Unaffected by sound moves.
Speed Boost	Speed raises at end of turn.
Stall		This Pokemon moves last.
Static		Enemies' contact moves can Paralyze them.
Steadfast	Speed is boosted one stage when flinched.
Stench		Decreases wild encounter rate.
Sticky Hold	This Pokemon's item cannot be removed. Increases chance of encountering Pokemon while fishing.
Storm Drain	All Water attacks hit this Pokemon.
Sturdy		OHKO moves will fail.
Suction Cups	Cannot be forced to switch. Increases chance of encountering Pokemon while fishing.
Super Luck	Critical Hit rate increases one stage.
Swarm		Boosts power of Bug moves 50% when at 1/3 HP or less.
Swift Swim	Speed doubles in Rain.
Synchronize	When statused, the enemy is also statused. Can pass nature to wild Pokemon.
Tangled Feet	Evasion increases when confused.
Technician	Moves with 60 base power or less do 50% more damage.
Thick Fat	Halves Ice and Fire damage.
Tinted Lens	Doubles damage on resisted hits.
Torrent		Boosts power of Water moves 50% when at 1/3 HP or less.
Trace		Copies foe's Ability.
Truant		This Pokemon does nothing every other turn.
Unaware		Ignores stat boosts on all Pokemon.
Unburden	Speed increases when an item is used or lost.
Vital Spirit	Prevents Sleep. Increases wild encounters with higher level Pokemon.
Volt Absorb	Heals 25% HP when hit by an Electric attack.
Water Absorb	Heals 25% HP when hit by a Water attack.
Water Veil	Prevents Burn.
White Smoke	Prevents the enemy from lowering this Pokemon's stats and decreases wild encounter rate.
Wonder Guard	Only super effective attacks harm this Pokemon.